# PetriObjModelPaint 
Notice: AbsoluteLayout.jar library should be added to the project if not NetBeans IDE is used.

PetriObjModelPaint is the project of Petri-object simulation technique implementation. Petri-object simulation technique, the main concept of which is to compose the code of model of complicated discrete event system in a fast and flexible way, simultaneously providing fast running the simulation, is requisite. The behaviour description of the model based on stochastic multichannel Petri net while the model composition is grounded on object-oriented technology. 
The Petri-object simulation software provides scalable simulation algorithm, graphical editor, correct transformation graphical images into model, correct simulation results. Graphical editor helps to cope with error-prone process of linking elements with each other.
Petri-object simulation software is developed using Java language. It consists of package PetriObjLib implementing Petri-object simulation algorithm and the packages providing graphical presentation of nets. The graphical editor helps to build Petri net, save it as a Java method and add method to the NetLibrary class. The opening net from file or reproducing net from Java method are supported by the software. In addition, animation of simulation is provided to check the rightness of created Petri net. It should be noted, exception will be generated if Petri net consists a transition which has not input or output places. After successful saving, the method can be used to create Petri-objects. When the list of Petri-objects is prepared and the links between objects are determined, the model can be created using PetriObjModel class. The method go(double time) of this class run the simulation. Exception will be generated if a time delay generator will produce a negative value.
Software main responsibilities are to provide correct simulation algorithm and correct simulation results including mean values of markers in Petri net places, mean value of buffers in transitions and the state of Petri net in the last moment of simulation.
